# Events

According to our terminology, the program or schedule is made up of various events, each of which takes place in some space. Events can be of various user-defined types, and may be hierarchical. Similarly, spaces may be hierarchical. To match events to spaces, they are considered to have a size (internally unitless) and some additional features that may be required. For instance, the top-level spaces could be considered as separate buildings, each with rooms within them, and a feature such as "A/V projector" could be defined and assigned to some set of "room" spaces. Then, when an event is proposed, it may in turn have "A/V projector" marked as a requirement of the space it's put in. Events may also have arbitrary tags assigned to them.

To track event development progress, by default each event is in one of four states: "idea", "working", "ready", or "dropped" (these and their allowed transitions are customisable). Event publication may be controlled separately from the state, allowing e.g. timed publication, and enabling previously published but then cancelled events to still have their details visible.

Access control grants separately permission for reading and editing events. Additional toggles are provided for controlling the ability to send e-mail messages and for changing the state of an event. For more fine-grained control, events may be assigned to tracks, each of which may have its own separate set of permissions. A track may also specify that read or write access to its unpublished events require explicit track-specific permission. Tags may also be specific to individual tracks.

Participant information relies on the common member management, which does support e.g. non-member persons as potential participants. Participant status has by default four states: "idea", "working", "confirmed", and "declined", but these may be user-defined. Optionally, participant roles within an event may also be defined, and the default-true public visibility of the participant may be disabled. Polling participants for specific preference regarding individual events is also possible. E-mail messages may be sent from the system to participants, filtered by track as well as participant and event attributes.

Changes to events are logged with the user id and a timestamp, allowing for tracking and undoability. Comments may also be added for events; these are not public and only visible to those with read access to the event in question.
